VM-boot-order (#270)
openshift/openshift-origin-design: web-console/knikubevirt/vm-details/vm-boot-order/vm-boot-order.md

# VM details - boot order

## Entering edit mode

> ![VM details - Overview tab](img/B1-0-0.jpg)

Reviewer: Hi @Ranelim I noticed we are still using the older blue in this part of the flow. In other areas listed below, such as the wireframe to edit the virtual machine boot order we are using the newer blue, which leads me to believe you are adopting the new blue as a standard. If that is the case, it would be good to update the pages across the flow with the new PF blue: https://www.patternfly.org/v4/design-guidelines/styles/colors

> ![VM details - Overview tab](img/C1-0-0.jpg)

Reviewer 2: nit: we are now showing underlines for each of the section headers instead of the (?) icon.

> From the VM details page, Overview tab, the user clicks the pencil icon to edit the boot order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From the VM details page > Overview tab, the user clicks the pencil icon to edit the boot order.
```

## Removing source items
![Modal - default](img/B1-1-0.jpg)
The modal pops up, displaying the currently listed bootable items by order of boot.

> This order was automatically set on the VM creation. This list displays bootable disks and NICS only.

Reviewer 2: Should we clarify here that CD-ROMs can be listed here as well?

Reviewer 2: @jelkosz is this list populated by ALL boot sources by default?

Author: I've added CD-ROM in the list that should be included by default on the list

At this point, all the bootable sources are listed and there is no available resources to add to the list.
An available sources counter at the bottom on the list highlights that to the user.

![Removing item - actions menu](img/B1-1-1.jpg)
From the action menu of each item, the user can remove an item from the list adding it to the available sources inventory.

![Removing item](img/B1-1-2.jpg)

> An 'Add source' dropdown will appear at the bottom of the list, as the last item.

Reviewer 3: The kebab action list have a delete option, and move options. The move options are another way to show the drag&drop actions (using mouse or key combinations) , if we do not display the move actions in the kebab, we will have only a delete action and will be able to use a (-) icon like in other designs, for example https://github.com/openshift/openshift-origin-design/blob/master/web-console/4.0-designs/environment/environment.md , leaving us with a more consistence experience to users, WDYT ?

Reviewer 2: +1, I've done a bit more digging here from an accessibility standpoint and I think we can safely rely on providing better a11y support outside of the kebab so the experience is the same for all users. Take a look at this article which outlines a nice way to implement this: https://medium.com/salesforce-ux/4-major-patterns-for-accessible-drag-and-drop-1d43f64ebf09
I think with this we'll need to dig into the PatternFly side to see if this is planned for implementation or if we can possibly contribute it.
I've posted to the general channel for PatternFly to see if we can get a conversation going. With that said, I agree with @yaacov that aligning with the current pattern makes the most sense here. WDYT @Ranelim

Reviewer 2: @yaacov we can also look at the deployments > environment for this drag and drop functionality. It aligns nicely with what we have now.

The available sources counter at the bottom of the list updates to reflect that there are available bootable items. 

## Adding source items
![Add available source](img/B1-2-0.jpg)

> The user clicks the 'add source' dropdown at the bottom of the list.

Reviewer 3: In other designs we us a (+) icon for that, https://github.com/openshift/openshift-origin-design/blob/master/web-console/4.0-designs/environment/environment.md, can we use an icon here, same as in other designs ?

This item displays a type-ahead dropdown, which is already in focus, ready for the user to select an available item from the dropdown menu or filter the list by typing

![Source added](img/B1-2-1.jpg)
The added item is placed at the bottom of the list.
The 'Add source' will move down to the bottom of the list, under the recently added item, in case there are more additional bootable items available to be added.

## Drag & drop source items
![Drag-drop - grab](img/B1-3-0.jpg)
The user grabs an item by clicking and holding the 'drag-drop' icon.

![Drag-drop - drop](img/B1-3-1.jpg)
While holding the item between other items on the list, a blue Separator will mark the place where that item will land on the list after releasing it.

> # Drag & drop accessibility

Reviewer 2: +1 This is really interesting and a nice addition to the design.

A new item at the bottom of the list will appear, marking its location on the list. 

This item will also contain a type-ahead dropdown, which is already in focus, ready for the user to select an available item from the dropdown menu or filter the list by typing.

In case the item added has only one option, that item will be already selected to that option.

## Removing source items
The user can remove an item from the list by clicking on the 'remove' icon at the left of each item. By doing so, the user will be adding it to the available sources inventory.
The 'Remove' icone will be available for all items.

## Drag & drop source items
![Add available source](img/C1-2-0.jpg)
The user grabs an item by clicking and holding the 'drag-drop' icon.

![Source added](img/C1-2-1.jpg)
While holding the item between other items on the list, a blue Separator will mark the place where that item will land on the list after releasing it.

## Empty state
![VM page - no source](img/C2-0-0.jpg)
An empry state occures when the VM is created via YAML, without specifying any boot order priority.
It is also achieved when the lasg item on the Boot-order modal is removed.

> With an empty state, the colsole will notify the user that "No sources selected", and "Boot from disks by order of appearance on YAML"

Reviewer 2: nitpic: 
```suggestion
With an empty state, the colsole will notify the user that "No sources selected", and "Boot from disks by order of appearance in YAML file"
```

![VM page - show disks by order of apperance on YAML](img/C2-0-1.jpg)
From the VM page the user will be able to see the disk list by order of appearance on the YAML

> ![VM page - no sources modal](img/C2-1-0.jpg)

Reviewer 2: Can we use just a standard PF empty state here?

Author: I removed the grey BG. Other than that, I believe it is standard PF

Reviewer 2: ya just a note that when this gets built we'll see the button without a border and the spacing will be a bit different. Just something to note in the dev doc :)
